Software: Centralized Serial Communication

Purpose: 
	Serve as a centralized point of communication for all
    to receive data from other microcontrollers and transmit
    that data to the appropriate program/function for further
    processing.


Program Operation:

	This software was designed to work with multiple serial
	connections. It will work with one or connected devices.
	At design time, it was anticipated that as many as 32 devices
	may be connected. 

	To create the serial connection with another device, the 
	baud rate and device path name must be known. This information
	is acquired by reading an input file at program start up.

	The input file contains the following:
		- device id
		- device name
		- baud rate
		- device path name 
		- active / non-active state

		The device id will be used to determine where the received
		data should be transmitted for further processing. 

		The device name is useful for data logging. 

		The baud rate is needed as both devices must transmit and
		receive at the same rate to ensure data is correctly interpreted.

		The device path name is used to open the connection.

		The active state information allows a device to be listed
		in the input file, but be set as inactive if it is malfunctioning
		or not part of the system being tested. The rationale is that
		when the entire system is running, the file will contain all 
		the devices. If something goes wrong during testing, the 
		malfunctioning device can be set as inactive and the program
		will not try to establish communication with the device. 

	
	After reading the device input file, serial connections are opened
	with each active device. Establishing serial connections requires
	opening a file to access the stream of information from the specified
	device path. This results in the assignment of a file descriptor.

	A set of communication states must be maintained for each device.
	The communication state information includes the following:
		Operational State 
		Message State
		File Descriptor
		Read State
		Write State


	Operational states:
		WAIT_FOR_CONNECTION 
		ACKNOWLEDGE_CONNECTION
		WAIT_FOR_SENSOR_ID
		SENSOR_REGISTRATION_COMPLETE
		RECEIVE_SENSOR_DATA
		NOT_OPERATIONAL

	Message States:
		AWAITING_START_MARKER
		AWAITING_SENSOR_ID
		AWAITING_DATA_BYTE_ONE
		AWAITING_DATA_BYTE_TWO
		AWAITING_DATA_BYTE_THREE
		AWAITING_END_MARKER 
		MESSAGE_COMPLETE 
		NOT_COMMUNICATING


	After serial connections are opened for all devices, each device
	is in the wait for connection state. The device remains in this
	state until the hello message is received.


	 


Points to ponder

1. Is the device active state necessary? 

	a. Scenario: during competition testing, one of the devices
	   is malfunctioning. Is it better to just remove that
	   device entry from the input file, so that the file
	   only ever contains active devices, or is it better to
	   keep that entry in the file, simply changing state
	   from active to inactive.

	b. Scenario: only one small subsystem is being tested.
	   The master input file contains 32 devices, but only
	   3 of those being tested are active. Do we mark 29
	   as inactive? No, create an input file that only 
	   contains the 3 devices under test. Obviously, they
	   are all active. The active field then only causes
	   unecessary extra programming steps and uses extra
	   memory space.

	c. The active state was added as a consideration of
	   information that may or may not be useful. The users
	   of this software will have to determine if this
	   is a useful feature. If not, it should be removed
	   to slightly simplify processing.

	d. Where is it used in processing? 
		i. When opening the serial port connection. Checks
		   the active state and only tries to connect
		   to active devices. This is performed once at
		   startup. Act

		ii. Repeatedly during program execution. Every time
		    the main loop runs, the active

	   

2. What happens when we cannot open a serial connection to all 
   active devices?

3. Do we stay in the Operational WAIT_FOR_CONNECTION  state 
   until receiving a hello message from all connected devices?


4. Function import_sensor_data, operations.h, adds 1 to 
   total sensor count each time one line of file data is successfully 
   read. Is it advisable to add the total sensor count to the input 
   data file? This integer value could be read first and then the 
   total sensor count after reading the entire file can be compared.

   The function is designed to quit if it fails to read
   one line of file data. The error in the total number of
   sensors may come from not including all the sensor data
   in the input file. Adding the count to the file provides
   an opportunity for ensuring data for every sensor is
   listed in the file. Of course, it is possible that the
   count may be in error. 

   Example: total count should be
   32, but is 31 and there are 31 lines to read. Does 
   not protect against a missing sensor in that case.


5. Select failure - file communication_state.c
   function check_select_return_value returns
   the error condition SELECT_FAILURE for select
   function errors from which we likely cannot recover. 

   Errors:  
            EBADF - invalid file descriptor. Possible fd closed, or in error state
            EINTR - signal was caught
            EINVAL - nfds is negative or timeout value is invalid
            ENOMEM - unable to allocate memory for internal tables. 

     The exception is EINTR, signal was caught. We have a signal
     handler installed and are not counting EINTR as
     a select failure. 

   The other select failures are likely fatal to communication.
   At the present time, a count of failures is maintained and
   recorded at program termination. These errors are logged,
   but the program continues. As the program is tested with
   an actual system and we find select failure occurs, then
   we should signal another program that we are no longer 
   able to communicate. 

   
6. Sensor ID mismatch - File operations.c
   function: process_operational_state.c,

   In state WAIT_FOR_SENSOR_ID, when the id message
   is received, the received sensor id is compared to the sensor id 
   originally read from the sensor input file. When the id's do not 
   match, a fatal error occurs. The error is logged and the signal 
   SIGTERM is raised, terminating program execution.

   We could handle this by overwriting the sensor id with the one 
   transmitted, making the assumption that the input data file was 
   incorrect. But what if this is not the case? 

   What if the input file says this is tachometer 1 and the sensor 
   id says it is a temperature sensor? We don't want to report the data 
   incorrectly.

 7. Sensor registration failure - File operations.c
    function process_operational_state.c

    In state SENSOR_REGISTRATION_COMPLETE, there is a counter named
    stateEntryCount that keeps track of how many times this section
    of code is entered. Ideally, it should only be entered once for
    each sensor as the sensor registration is completed.

    The program will never progress to the RECEIVE_SENSOR_DATA if
    registration is not completed. As soon as the stateEntryCount
    exceeds the activeSensorCount, an error is logged, listing
    the sensors that have not yet completed registration.

    If the stateEntryCount reaches the point where it is 2 times
    the activeSensorCount, SIGTERM is raised and the program is
    terminated, with an appropriate log message. The 2 times
    was arbitrarily chosen. It can be reduced to allow this 
    condition to occur earlier.

    This error condition occurs when the Linux program has not
    successfully transmitted the readyResponse message. Likely,
    this is due to a dropped connection between devices.

    Possible recovery is to close the serial connection and
    reopen it. Successfully reopening it will cause both devices
    to go back to the initial state and run through the registration
    process, potentially successfully completing the process. Failure
    to open the connection, currently results in setting the device as
    inactive.


